---
title: "Amorphous silicon carbide ultramicroelectrode arrays for neural stimulation and recording"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-01-08-JNE-deku
excerpt: '<p style=&quot;text-align: justify&quot;>Foreign body response to indwelling cortical microelectrodes limits the reliability of neural stimulation and recording, particularly for extended chronic applications in behaving animals. In collaboration with Stuart Cogan&apos;s lab at UT Dallas, we developed microelectrode arrays based on amorphous silicon carbide, providing chronic stability and employing semiconductor manufacturing processes to create arrays with small shank dimensions. My role in the project was to design electrode geometries, to test their electrochemical properties ex-vivo, and to test them by acute and chronic in-vivo recording in zebra finches. </p>'
date: 2018-01-08
venue: 'Journal of neural engineering'
paperurl: 'https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1741-2552/aa8f8b'
citation: 'Deku F, <b>Cohen Y</b>, Joshi-Imre A, Kanneganti A, Gardner TJ, and Cogan SF (2018) &quot;Amorphous Silicon Carbide Ultramicroelectrode Arrays for Neural Stimulation and Recording&quot;. <i>J. Neural Eng.</i> 15, 016007.'
---
<p style=&quot;text-align: justify&quot;>Foreign body response to indwelling cortical microelectrodes limits the reliabilityof neural stimulation and recording, particularly for extended chronic applications in behavinganimals. The extent to which this response compromises the chronic stability of neuraldevices depends on many factors including the materials used in the electrode construction,the size, and geometry of the indwelling structure. Here, we report on the development ofmicroelectrode arrays (MEAs) based on amorphous silicon carbide (a-SiC). Approach. Thistechnology utilizes a-SiC for its chronic stability and employs semiconductor manufacturingprocesses to create MEAs with small shank dimensions. The a-SiC films were deposited byplasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition and patterned by thin-film photolithographictechniques. To improve stimulation and recording capabilities with small contact areas, weinvestigated low impedance coatings on the electrode sites. The assembled devices werecharacterized in phosphate buffered saline for their electrochemical properties. Main results.MEAs utilizing a-SiC as both the primary structural element and encapsulation werefabricated successfully. These a-SiC MEAs had 16 penetrating shanks. Each shank has across-sectional area less than 60 _m2 and electrode sites with a geometric surface area varyingfrom 20 to 200 _m2. Electrode coatings of TiN and SIROF reduced 1 kHz electrode impedanceto less than 100 kOhm from ~2.8 MOhm for 100 um^2 Au electrode sites and increased the chargeinjection capacities to values greater than 3 mC cm_2. Finally, we demonstrated functionalityby recording neural activity from basal ganglia nucleus of Zebra Finches and motor cortexof rat. Significance. The a-SiC MEAs provide a significant advancement in the developmentof microelectrodes that over the years has relied on silicon platforms for device manufacture.These flexible a-SiC MEAs have the potential for decreased tissue damage and reducedforeign body response. The technique is promising and has potential for clinical translationand large scale manufacturing.</p>

[Download paper here](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1741-2552/aa8f8b)

Recommended citation: Deku F, <b>Cohen Y</b>, Joshi-Imre A, Kanneganti A, Gardner TJ, and Cogan SF (2018) "Amorphous Silicon Carbide Ultramicroelectrode Arrays for Neural Stimulation and Recording". <i>J. Neural Eng.</i> 15, 016007.