---
title: "A geometric representation unveils learning dynamics in primate neurons"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019-02-28-cohen-schneidman-paz-biorxiv
excerpt: '<p style=&quot;text-align: justify&quot;>To study neural dynamics during learning of new and diverse concepts, I trained two monkeys to perform the same classification task my human subjects carried and recorded neurons in the dACC and the Striatum as the animals learned eight novel classification rules. To examine dynamics, I developed a description of rules and of neural representations of the visual stimuli that allowed tracking dynamics in geometrical terms - unifying sessions of learning different rules. This framework allowed teasing apart potential roles of the different brain areas and to predict future behavior from the neural state.</p>'
date: 2019-02-28
venue: 'bioRxiv'
paperurl: 'https://www.biorxiv.org/content/biorxiv/early/2019/02/28/561670.full.pdf'
citation: '<b>Cohen Y</b>, Schneidman E, Paz R (2019) &quot;A geometric representation unveils learning dynamics in primate neurons&quot;. <i>bioRxiv</i>'
---
Primates can quickly and advantageously adopt complex rule-based behaviors. We studiedacquisition of rule-based classification while recording single neurons in the dorsal-anteriorcingulate-cortex (dACC) and the Striatum. Monkeys performed trial-by-trial classification on a richset of multi-cue patterns, allowing de-novo rule-learning with varying conceptual complexities everyfew days. To examine neural dynamics during the learning itself, we represent each rule with aspanning set of the space formed by the stimulus features. Because neural preference can beexpressed by feature combinations, we can track neural dynamics in geometrical terms in thisspace, allowing a compact universal description of neural trajectories by observing changes ineither vector-magnitude and/or angle-to-rule. We find that a large fraction of cells in both regionsfollow the behavior during learning. Neurons in the dACC mainly rotate towards the rule, suggestingan increase in selectivity that approximates the rule; whereas in the Putamen we additionally find aprominent magnitude increase, suggesting strengthening of confidence. Moreover, magnitudeincreases in the striatum followed rotation in the dACC, and finally, the neural policy at the end ofthe session predicted next-day behavior. Using this novel framework enables tracking of neuraldynamics during learning and suggests differential roles of confidence and policy for the differentbrain regions.

[Download paper here](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/biorxiv/early/2019/02/28/561670.full.pdf)

Recommended citation: <b>Cohen Y</b>, Schneidman E, Paz R (2019) "A geometric representation unveils learning dynamics in primate neurons". <i>bioRxiv</i>